Action View Form Helpers (WIP) (#6)
bhumi1102/rails: guides/source/form_helpers.md

Action View Form Helpers
========================

> Forms are a common interface for user input in web applications. However, form markup can be tedious to write and maintain because of the need to handle form controls, naming and attributes. Rails simplifies this by providing view helpers, which are methods that output HTML form markup. This guide will help you understand the different helper methods and when to use each.

Reviewer: comma missing after naming

> Forms are a common interface for user input in web applications. However, form markup can be tedious to write and maintain because of the need to handle form controls, naming and attributes. Rails simplifies this by providing view helpers, which are methods that output HTML form markup. This guide will help you understand the different helper methods and when to use each.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Forms are a common interface for user input in web applications. However, form markup can be tedious to write and maintain because of the need to handle form controls, naming, and attributes. Rails simplifies this by providing view helpers, which are methods that output HTML form markup. This guide will help you understand the different helper methods and when to use each.
```

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> NOTE: This guide is not intended to be a complete list of all available form helpers. Please reference [the Rails API documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers.html) for an exhaustive list of form helpers and their arguments.

Reviewer: Can we use "Please see"or "Please refer to" rather than reference?

Reviewer 2: Also maybe replace `exhaustive` with the simpler `complete`?
```suggestion
NOTE: This guide is not intended to be a complete list of all available form helpers. Please reference [the Rails API documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers.html) for a complete list of form helpers and their arguments.
```

> NOTE: This guide is not intended to be a complete list of all available form helpers. Please reference [the Rails API documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers.html) for an exhaustive list of form helpers and their arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: This guide is not intended to be a complete list of all available form helpers. Please refer to [the Rails API documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers.html) for an exhaustive list of form helpers and their arguments.
```

<% end %>
```

> When called without arguments like this, it creates an HTML `<form>` tag which, when submitted, will POST to the current page. For example, assuming the current page is a home page at `/home`, the generated HTML will look like this:

Author: I like your suggestion :)

```html
<form action="/home" accept-charset="UTF-8" method="post">
  <input type="hidden" name="authenticity_token" value="Lz6ILqUEs2CGdDa-oz38TqcqQORavGnbGkG0CQA8zc8peOps-K7sHgFSTPSkBx89pQxh3p5zPIkjoOTiA_UWbQ" autocomplete="off">
  Form contents
</form>
```

Notice that the form contains an `input` element with type `hidden`. This `authenticity_token` hidden input is required for non-GET form submissions.
This token is a security feature in Rails used to prevent cross-site request forgery (CSRF) attacks, and form helpers automatically generate it for every non-GET form (assuming the security feature is enabled). You can read more about it in the [Securing Rails Applications](security.html#cross-site-request-forgery-csrf) guide.

### A Generic Search Form

One of the most basic forms on the web is a search form. This form contains:

* a form element with "GET" method,
* a label for the input,
* a text input element, and
* a submit element.

> Here is how to create a search form with `form_with` and the form builder object:

Author: good point. updated!

This will generate the following HTML:

```html
<form action="/search" accept-charset="UTF-8" method="get">
  <label for="query">Search for:</label>
  <input type="text" name="query" id="query">
  <input type="submit" name="commit" value="Search" data-disable-with="Search">
</form>
```

Notice that for the search form we are using the `url` option of `form_with`. Setting `url: "/search"` changes the form action value from the default current page path to `action="/search"`.

In general, passing `url: my_path` to `form_with` tells the form where to make the request. The other option is to pass Active Record objects to the form, as you will learn [below](#creating-forms-with-model-objects).

The search form example also shows the [form builder](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html) object. You will learn about the many helpers provided by the form builder object (like`form.label` and `form.text_field` in the above example) in the next section.

TIP: For every form `input` element, an `id` attribute is generated from its name (`"query"` in above example). These IDs can be very useful for CSS styling or manipulation of form controls with JavaScript.

> IMPORTANT: It is recommended to use "GET" as the method for search forms. This allows users to bookmark a specific search. More generally Rails encourages you to use the right HTTP verb for an action.

Reviewer: "More generally Rails encourages you to use the right HTTP verb for an action."
Does this mean that you should use GET for search forms because its the right HTTP verb to use? Seems unnecessary unless leading with that:
"Rails convention encourages using the right HTTP verb for an action, so use "GET" as the method for search forms. This allows users to bookmark and return to a specific search."

The form builder object yielded by `form_with` provides many helper methods for generating common form elements such as text fields, checkboxes, and radio buttons.

The first parameter to these methods is always the name of the input. This is
useful to remember because when the form is submitted, that name will be passed
to the controller along with the form data in the `params` hash. The name will be the key in the `params` for the value entered by the user for that field.

For example, if the form contains `<%= form.text_field :query %>`, then you
would be able to get the value of this field in the controller with
`params[:query]`.

When naming inputs, Rails uses certain conventions that make it possible to submit parameters with non-scalar values such as arrays or hashes, which will also be accessible in `params`. You can read more about them in the [Form Input Naming Conventions and Params Hash](#form-input-naming-conventions-and-params-hash) section of this guide. For details on the precise usage of these helpers, please refer to the [API documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormTagHelper.html).

#### Checkboxes

> A Checkbox is a form control that allows for a single value to be selected or deselected. A group of Checkboxes are generally used to allow a user a choose one or more options from the group.

Reviewer: "A group of Checkboxes **is**" since 'group' is singular.

Reviewer: and "to allow a user **to** choose one or more"

> A Checkbox is a form control that allows for a single value to be selected or deselected. A group of Checkboxes are generally used to allow a user a choose one or more options from the group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Checkbox is a form control that allows for a single value to be selected or deselected. A group of Checkboxes is generally used to allow a user to choose one or more options from the group.
```

For example, these two checkboxes in a form:

```erb
<%= form.check_box :biography %>
<%= form.label :biography, "Biography" %>
<%= form.check_box :romance %>
<%= form.label :romance, "Romance" %>
<%= form.check_box :mystery %>
<%= form.label :mystery, "Mystery" %>
```

Will generate the following:

```html
<input name="biography" type="hidden" value="0" autocomplete="off"><input type="checkbox" value="1" name="biography" id="biography">
<label for="biography">Biography</label>
<input name="romance" type="hidden" value="0" autocomplete="off"><input type="checkbox" value="1" name="romance" id="romance">
<label for="romance">Romance</label>
<input name="mystery" type="hidden" value="0" autocomplete="off"><input type="checkbox" value="1" name="mystery" id="mystery">
<label for="mystery">Mystery</label>
```

> The first parameter to [`check_box`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html#method-i-check_box) is the name of the input which can be found in the `params` hash. If the user has checked the "Biography" checkbox only, the `params` hash would contain `params: {"biography"=>"1", "romance"=>"0", "mystery"=>"0"}`. You can use `params[:biography]` to check if that checkbox is checked by the user.

Reviewer: Instead of "to check if that checkbox is checked" maybe we can say "to check if that checkbox is selected" to avoid too many checks.

> The first parameter to [`check_box`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html#method-i-check_box) is the name of the input which can be found in the `params` hash. If the user has checked the "Biography" checkbox only, the `params` hash would contain `params: {"biography"=>"1", "romance"=>"0", "mystery"=>"0"}`. You can use `params[:biography]` to check if that checkbox is checked by the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first parameter to [`check_box`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html#method-i-check_box) is the name of the input which can be found in the `params` hash. If the user has checked the "Biography" checkbox only, the `params` hash would contain `params: {"biography"=>"1", "romance"=>"0", "mystery"=>"0"}`. You can use `params[:biography]` to check if that checkbox is selected by the user.
```

> The checkbox's values (the values that will appear in `params`) can optionally be specified using the third and fourth parameters. See the [API documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormHelper.html#method-i-check_box) for more details.

Reviewer: What does this mean: can "be specified using the third and fourth parameters"?
I checked the API link but didn't find the answer.

#### Radio Buttons

> Radio buttons are form controls that allow the user to select one option from a set of options. The user can only select one option at a time as the choices are mutually exclusive.

Reviewer: "one option" is repeated here twice. Do we need "mutually exclusive" here? Can we combine these sentences into one?
"Radio buttons are form controls that only allow the user to select one option at a time from the list of choices."

> Radio buttons are form controls that allow the user to select one option from a set of options. The user can only select one option at a time as the choices are mutually exclusive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Radio buttons are form controls that only allow the user to select one option at a time from the list of choices.
```

    <input type="text" name="book[title]" id="book_title">
  </div>
  <div>
    <label for="book_author">Author</label>
    <input type="text" name="book[author]" id="book_author">
  </div>
  <input type="submit" name="commit" value="Create Book" data-disable-with="Create Book">
</form>
```

Some important things to note when using `form_with` with a model object:

* The form `action` is automatically filled with an appropriate value, `action="/books"`. If you were updating a book, it would be `action="/books/42"`.
* The form field names are scoped with `book[...]`. This means that `params[:book]` will be a hash containing all these field's values. You can read more about the significance of input names in chapter [Form Input Naming Conventions and Params Hash](#form-input-naming-conventions-and-params-hash) of this guide.
* The submit button is automatically given an appropriate text value, "Create Book" in this case.

TIP: Typically your form inputs will mirror model attributes. However, they don't have to. If there is other information you need you can include a field in your form and access it via `params[:book][:my_non_attribute_input]`.

#### Composite Primary Key Forms

> If you have a model with a [composite primary key](active_record_composite_primary_keys.html), forms building syntax is the same with slightly different output.

Reviewer: I think this should be either:
forms building syntax **are** the same
or
**the** form building syntax is the same

> If you have a model with a [composite primary key](active_record_composite_primary_keys.html), forms building syntax is the same with slightly different output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a model with a [composite primary key](active_record_composite_primary_keys.html), the form building syntax is the same with slightly different output.
```

This will generate the following HTML:

```html
<form action="/search" accept-charset="UTF-8" method="get">
  <label for="query">Search for:</label>
  <input type="text" name="query" id="query">
  <input type="submit" name="commit" value="Search" data-disable-with="Search">
</form>
```

Notice that for the search form we are using the `url` option of `form_with`. Setting `url: "/search"` changes the form action value from the default current page path to `action="/search"`.

In general, passing `url: my_path` to `form_with` tells the form where to make the request. The other option is to pass Active Record objects to the form, as you will learn [below](#creating-forms-with-model-objects).

TIP: For every form `input` element, an `id` attribute is generated from its name (`"query"` in above example). These IDs can be very useful for CSS styling or manipulation of form controls with JavaScript.

IMPORTANT: It is recommended to use "GET" as the method for search forms. This allows users to bookmark a specific search. More generally Rails encourages you to use the right HTTP verb for an action.

### Helpers for Generating Form Elements

> The form builder object yielded by `form_with` provides many helper methods for generating common form elements such as text fields, checkboxes, and radio buttons.

Author: good point. updated to link the two better.

The first parameter to these methods is always the name of the input. This is
useful to remember because when the form is submitted, that name will be passed
to the controller along with the form data in the `params` hash. The name will be the key in the `params` for the value entered by the user for that field.

For example, if the form contains `<%= form.text_field :query %>`, then you
would be able to get the value of this field in the controller with
`params[:query]`.

When naming inputs, Rails uses certain conventions that make it possible to submit parameters with non-scalar values such as arrays or hashes, which will also be accessible in `params`. You can read more about them in the [For Input Naming Conventions and Params Hash](#form-input-naming-conventions-and-params-hash) section of this guide. For details on the precise usage of these helpers, please refer to the [API documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormTagHelper.html).

#### Checkboxes

> Checkboxes are form controls that give the user a set of options they can enable or disable.

Author: good point. Expanded on that description to be "A Checkbox is a form control that allows for a single value to be selected or deselected. A group of Checkboxes are generally used to allow a user a choose one or more options from the group."

For example, these two checkboxes in form:

```erb
<%= form.check_box :fiction %>
<%= form.label :fiction, "Fiction" %>
<%= form.check_box :non_fiction %>

> <%= form.label :non_fiction, "Non-fiction" %>

Author: done!

```

Will generates the following:

```html
  <input name="fiction" type="hidden" value="0" autocomplete="off">
  <input type="checkbox" value="1" name="fiction" id="fiction">
  <label for="fiction">Fiction</label>
  <input name="non_fiction" type="hidden" value="0" autocomplete="off">
  <input type="checkbox" value="1" name="non_fiction" id="non_fiction">
  <label for="non_fiction">Non-fiction</label>
</form>
```

The first parameter to [`check_box`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html#method-i-check_box) is the name of the input. This can be found in the `params` hash. If the user has checked "fiction" checkbox only, the `params` hash would contain `params: {"fiction"=>"1", "non_fiction"=>"0"}` and you can use `params[:fiction]` to check if that checkbox is checked by the user.

> The checkbox's values (the values that will appear in `params`) can optionally be specified using the third and fourth parameters. See the API documentation for more details.

Author: done!

#### Radio Buttons

Radio buttons are form controls that allow the user to select one option from a set of options. The user can only select one option at a time as the choices are mutually exclusive.

> For example, radio buttons for selecting an age range:

Author: I kept this example from the original docs, but for updating it. Age range is mutually exclusive though so radio button (vs. checkbox) would make sense. I'm always up for adding food references though :)

> For example, radio buttons for selecting an age range:

Author: Updated to ice cream flavors 😋

<%= form.label :age_adult, "I am over 21" %>
```

> Will generate the following HTML:

Author: Yeah I noticed this...it is capital in tens of other code snippets so I followed suit for consistency.

> Will generate the following HTML:

Reviewer: I think capital in this case looks better (and like Bhumi said, is prevalent throughout the guides) but I would try to avoid partial sentences as much as possible and use full sentences.

**For instance**:
The above will generate the following HTML:

<%= form.color_field :favorite_color %>

> ```

Reviewer 2: This is a pretty long list. I'm not sure anyone would read these line-by-line.
Maybe we can split it into separate groups?
* common fields like text areas, hidden fields, password fields, number fields
* date and time fields
* miscellaneous fields (sorry, can't seem to think of a better name yet)/

    <input type="text" name="book[title]" id="book_title">
  </div>
  <div>
    <label for="book_author">Author</label>
    <input type="text" name="book[author]" id="book_author">
  </div>
  <input type="submit" name="commit" value="Create Book" data-disable-with="Create Book">
</form>
```

Some important things to note when using `form_with` with a model object:

* The form `action` is automatically filled with an appropriate value, `action="/books"`. If you were updating a book, it would be `action="/books/42"`.
* The form field names are scoped with `book[...]`. This means that `params[:book]` will be a hash containing all these field's values. You can read more about the significance of input names in chapter [Form Input Naming Conventions and Params Hash](#form-input-naming-conventions-and-params-hash) of this guide.
* The submit button is automatically given an appropriate text value, "Create Book" in this case.

TIP: Typically your form inputs will mirror model attributes. However, they don't have to. If there is other information you need you can include a field in your form and access it via `params[:book][:my_non_attribute_input]`.

> #### Composite primary key forms

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Composite Primary Key Forms
```

> If you have a model with [composite primary key](active_record_composite_primary_keys.html), forms building syntax is the same with slightly different output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have a model with a [composite primary key](active_record_composite_primary_keys.html), forms building syntax is the same with slightly different output.
```

</form>
```

Note the generated URL contains the `author_id` and `id` delimited by an
underscore. Once submitted, the controller can [extract each primary key
value](action_controller_overview.html#composite-key-parameters) from the parameters and update the record as it would with a singular
primary key.

#### The `fields_for` Helper

The `fields_for` helper is used to render fields for related model objects

> within the same form. The "inner" model is usually related to the "main" model

Reviewer 3: Do you think the terms "inner" and "outer" or "main" and "secondary" may be more related?

Author: Updated! to a combination of the above :)

```html
<form action="/people" accept-charset="UTF-8" method="post">
  <input type="hidden" name="authenticity_token" value="..." autocomplete="off" />
  <input type="text" name="person[name]" id="person_name" />
  <input type="text" name="contact_detail[phone_number]" id="contact_detail_phone_number" />
</form>
```

The object yielded by `fields_for` is a form builder like the one yielded by
`form_with`. The `fields_for` helper creates a similar binding but without
rendering a `<form>` tag. You can learn more about `field_for` in the [API
docs](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html#method-i-fields_for).

### Relying on Record Identification

> When dealing with RESTful resources, calls to `form_with` can be simplified by relying on **record identification**. This means you pass the model instance and have Rails figure out model name, method, and other things. In the example below for creating a new record, both `form_with` have the same generated HTML:

Reviewer 2: "both `form_with` have the same generated HTML" was a bit confusing to me.
Maybe:
```suggestion
When dealing with RESTful resources, calls to `form_with` can be simplified by relying on **record identification**. This means you pass the model instance and have Rails figure out model name, method, and other things. In the example below for creating a new record, both calls to `form_with` generate the same HTML:
```

```ruby
# longer way:
form_with(model: @article, url: articles_path)
# short-hand:
form_with(model: @article)
```

> As do both `form_with` below for editing and existing article:

Reviewer 2: Similar as above:
```suggestion
As do both calls to `form_with` below for editing and existing article:
```

```ruby
# longer way:
form_with(model: @article, url: article_path(@article), method: "patch")
# short-hand:
form_with(model: @article)
```

Notice how the short-hand `form_with` invocation is conveniently the same, regardless of the record being new or existing. Record identification is smart enough to figure out if the record is new by asking [`record.persisted?`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Persistence.html#method-i-persisted-3F). It also selects the correct path to submit to, and the name based on the class of the object.

This is assuming that the `Article` model is declared with `resources :articles` in the routes file.

If you have a [singular resource](routing.html#singular-resources), you will need to call `resource` and `resolve` for it to work with `form_with`:

```ruby
resource :article
resolve('Article') { [:article] }
```

> TIP: Declaring a resource has a number of side effects. See [Rails Routing from the Outside In](routing.html#resource-routing-the-rails-default) guide for more information on setting up and using resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TIP: Declaring a resource has a number of side effects. See the [Rails Routing from the Outside In](routing.html#resource-routing-the-rails-default) guide for more information on setting up and using resources.
```

WARNING: When you're using [single-table inheritance](association_basics.html#single-table-inheritance-sti) with your models, you can't rely on record identification on a subclass if only their parent class is declared a resource. You will have to specify `:url`, and `:scope` (the model name) explicitly.

### Working with Namespaces

If you have namespaced routes, `form_with` has a shorthand for that as well. For example, if your application has an `admin` namespace then

```ruby
form_with model: [:admin, @article]
```

will create a form that submits to the `Admin::ArticlesController` inside the admin namespace, submitting to `admin_article_path(@article)` in the case of an update.

If you have several levels of namespacing then the syntax is similar:

```ruby
form_with model: [:admin, :management, @article]
```

> For more information on Rails' routing system and the associated conventions, please see [Rails Routing from the Outside In](routing.html) guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information on Rails' routing system and the associated conventions, please see the [Rails Routing from the Outside In](routing.html) guide.
```

### Forms with PATCH, PUT, or DELETE Methods

The Rails framework encourages RESTful design, which means forms in your application will make requests where the `method` is `PATCH`, `PUT`, or `DELETE` in addition to `GET` and `POST`. However, most browsers _don't support_ methods other than `GET` and `POST` when it comes to submitting forms.

Rails works around this limitation by emulating other methods over POST with a hidden input named `"_method"`. For example, this form:

```ruby
form_with(url: search_path, method: "patch")
```

Will generate this HTML output:

```html
<form action="/search" accept-charset="UTF-8" method="post">
  <input type="hidden" name="_method" value="patch" autocomplete="off">
  <input type="hidden" name="authenticity_token" value="R4quRuXQAq75TyWpSf8AwRyLt-R1uMtPP1dHTTWJE5zbukiaY8poSTXxq3Z7uAjXfPHiKQDsWE1i2_-h0HSktQ" autocomplete="off">
<!-- ... -->
</form>
```

> When parsing POSTed data, Rails will take into account the special hidden `_method` input and proceed as if the request's HTTP method was the one set as the value of `_method` (`PATCH` in this example).

Reviewer 3: Very cool! TIL!

</form>
```

In this case, the "Update" button will be treated as `PATCH` and the "Delete" button will be treated as `DELETE`.

[formmethod]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/button#attr-formmethod
[button-name]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/button#attr-name
[button-value]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/button#attr-value

> Making Select Boxes with Ease

Reviewer 3: (opitional, nitpick): This title feels a lengthy, I lead towards something simple like "Select Boxes" or even "Drop-Downs.

Author: All of the previous title start with -ing word, leaving it as is for consistency.

-----------------------------

> Select boxes, also know as drop-down list, allow users to select from a list of options. The HTML for select boxes requires a decent amount of markup - one `<option>` element for each option to choose from. Rails provides helper methods to help generate that markup.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Select boxes, also known as drop-down list, allow users to select from a list of options. The HTML for select boxes requires a decent amount of markup - one `<option>` element for each option to choose from. Rails provides helper methods to help generate that markup.
```

</select>
```

> ### Option Groups For Select

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Option Groups For Select Boxes
```

</select>
```

The only difference is that the selected option will be found in `params[:person][:city]` instead of `params[:city]`.

Notice that the appropriate option was automatically marked `selected="selected"`. Since this select box was bound to an existing `@person` record, we didn't need to specify a `:selected` argument.

> ### Selecting Time Zone

Reviewer 3: I like how you changed this from "Time Zone and Country Select" to "Selecting a Time Zone", maybe we can do the same with " the header above this "Select Boxes and Model Objects". What do you think about something more descriptive like "Binding Select Boxes to Model Objects" ? Sorry I for some reason could not drop this comment on that line and had to comment it here where you made a change.

Author: done!

When you need to ask users what time zone they are in, there is a very convenient [`time_zone_select`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html#method-i-time_zone_select) helper to use.

> Typically you would have to provide a list of time zone options for users to select from. This can get tedious if not for the list of pre-defined [`ActiveSupport::TimeZone`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/TimeZone.html) objects. The `time_with_zone` helper wraps this and can be used like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Typically, you would have to provide a list of time zone options for users to select from. This can get tedious if not for the list of pre-defined [`ActiveSupport::TimeZone`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/TimeZone.html) objects. The `time_with_zone` helper wraps this and can be used as follows:
```

```erb
<%= form.time_zone_select :time_zone %>
```

### Country Select

> Rails _used_ to have a `country_select` helper for choosing countries, but this has been extracted to the [country_select gem](https://github.com/stefanpenner/country_select).

Reviewer 2: The country_select section can be removed according to Rafael:
> We avoid external links. I thought it was in the documentation guides.
> 
> If a gem in inside the rails org is fine to keep mentioning it, but if it is out of the rails org we should remove the mention

> Rails _used_ to have a `country_select` helper for choosing countries, but this has been extracted to the [country_select gem](https://github.com/stefanpenner/country_select).

Author: Okay, I removed it.

> Using Date and Time Form Helpers

Author: good point. I added a reference to them here.

</select>
```

The only difference is that the selected option will be found in `params[:person][:city]` instead of `params[:city]`.

Notice that the appropriate option was automatically marked `selected="selected"`. Since this select box was bound to an existing `@person` record, we didn't need to specify a `:selected` argument.

> ### Selecting Time Zone

Reviewer: I might be missing why this is one section above, but going to ask anyway: Would this section not fall under the Date and Time helpers (next section)?

Author: No good reason anymore, moved!

</select>
```

Notice that, when the form is submitted, there will be no single value in the `params` hash that contains the full date. Instead, there will be several values with special names like `"birth_date(1i)"`. However, Active Record knows how to assemble these values into a full date, based on the declared type of the model attribute. So we can pass `params[:person]` to `Person.new` or `Person#update` just like we would if the form used a single field to represent the full date.

> In addition to the [`date_select`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html#method-i-date_select) helper, Rails provides [`time_select`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html#method-i-time_select) which outputs select boxes for hour and minute. There is [`datetime_select`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html#method-i-datetime_select) as well which combines both date and time select boxes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition to the [`date_select`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html#method-i-date_select) helper, Rails provides [`time_select`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html#method-i-time_select) which outputs select boxes for the hour and minute. There is [`datetime_select`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html#method-i-datetime_select) as well which combines both date and time select boxes.
```

```erb
<%= select_year 2024, prefix: "party" %>
```

Outputs a select box like:

```html
<select id="party_year" name="party[year]">
  <option value="2019">2019</option>
  <option value="2020">2020</option>
  <option value="2021">2021</option>
  <option value="2022">2022</option>
  <option value="2023">2023</option>
  <option value="2024" selected="selected">2024</option>
  <option value="2025">2025</option>
  <option value="2026">2026</option>
  <option value="2027">2027</option>
  <option value="2028">2028</option>
  <option value="2029">2029</option>
</select>
```

> For each of these helpers, you may specify a `Date` or `Time` object instead of a number as the default value, and the appropriate temporal component will be extracted and used.

Author: sure, added.

</select>
```

Notice that, when the form is submitted, there will be no single value in the `params` hash that contains the full date. Instead, there will be several values with special names like `"birth_date(1i)"`. However, Active Model knows how to assemble these values into a full date, based on the declared type of the model attribute. So we can pass `params[:person]` to `Person.new` or `Person#update` just like we would if the form used a single field to represent the full date.

In addition to the [`date_select`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html#method-i-date_select) helper, Rails provides [`time_select`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html#method-i-time_select) which outputs select boxes for the hour and minute. There is [`datetime_select`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html#method-i-datetime_select) as well which combines both date and time select boxes.

> ### Select Boxes for Individual Temporal Components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Select Boxes for Time/Date Components
```

```erb
<%= select_year 2024, prefix: "party" %>
```

Outputs a select box like:

```html
<select id="party_year" name="party[year]">
  <option value="2019">2019</option>
  <option value="2020">2020</option>
  <option value="2021">2021</option>
  <option value="2022">2022</option>
  <option value="2023">2023</option>
  <option value="2024" selected="selected">2024</option>
  <option value="2025">2025</option>
  <option value="2026">2026</option>
  <option value="2027">2027</option>
  <option value="2028">2028</option>
  <option value="2029">2029</option>
</select>
```

> For each of these helpers, you may specify a `Date` or `Time` object instead of a number as the default value (for example `<%= select_year Date.today, prefix: "party" %>` instead of the above), and the appropriate temporal component will be extracted and used.

Reviewer: Can we avoid using "temporal component"? Maybe just "the appropriate date or time will be extracted"

Reviewer: Better, yes. Or "date or time element" or "date or time info".

Author: Removed! yeah that word is not necessary. Plus it makes me think of tempura :)

> For each of these helpers, you may specify a `Date` or `Time` object instead of a number as the default value (for example `<%= select_year Date.today, prefix: "party" %>` instead of the above), and the appropriate temporal component will be extracted and used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each of these helpers, you may specify a `Date` or `Time` object instead of a number as the default value (for example `<%= select_year Date.today, prefix: "party" %>` instead of the above), and the appropriate date or time will be extracted and used.
```

<%= form.collection_select :city_id, City.order(:name), :id, :name %>
```

Which outputs the same HTML as the manual iteration above:

```html
<select name="person[city_id]" id="person_city_id">
  <option value="1">Berlin</option>
  <option value="3">Chicago</option>
  <option value="2">Madrid</option>
</select>
```

> NOTE: The order of arguments for `collection_select` is different from the order for `select`. With `collection_select` we specify the value method first (`:id` in the example above), and the text label method second (`:name` in the example above).  This is opposite of the order used when specifying choices for the `select` helper, where the text label comes first and the value second (`["Berlin", 3]` in the previous example).

Author: I added code for this in an app locally, and copy/pasted code snippets, so ids maybe different. But they should be consistent, I'll double check the 'id' to make sure they are consistent throughout.

Uploading Files
---------------

A common task with forms is allowing users to upload a file. It could be an avatar image or a CSV file with data to process. File upload fields can be rendered with the [`file_field`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html#method-i-file_field) helper.

```erb
<%= form_with model: @person do |form| %>
  <%= form.file_field :csv_file %>
<% end %>
```

The most important thing to remember with file uploads is that the rendered form's `enctype` attribute **must** be set to "multipart/form-data". This is done automatically if you use a `file_field` inside a `form_with`. You can also set the attribute manually:

```erb
<%= form_with url: "/uploads", multipart: true do |form| %>
  <%= file_field_tag :csv_file %>
<% end %>
```

Both of which, output the following HTML form:

```html
<form enctype="multipart/form-data" action="/people" accept-charset="UTF-8" method="post">
<!-- ... -->
</form>
```

> Note that, per `form_with` conventions, the field names in the two forms above will be different though. In the first form, it will be `person[csv_file]` (accessible via `params[:person][:csv_file]`), and in the second form it will be just `csv_file` (accessible via `params[:csv_file]`).

Author: It's talking about the specific example. I don't think a general callout is needed in this case.

### CSV File Upload Example

> When using `file_field`, the object in the `params` hash is an instance of [`ActionDispatch::Http::UploadedFile`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/Http/UploadedFile.html). Here is an example of how to save data in an uploaded CSV file to records in your domain model:

Author: Domain model of the application, i.e. all the models + database tables that make up the app. I guess we could say "records in your database"? 
Though "domain model" is a common enough term (in my estimation)...I'll leave this comment open for anyone else that has a preference/opinion.

> When using `file_field`, the object in the `params` hash is an instance of [`ActionDispatch::Http::UploadedFile`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/Http/UploadedFile.html). Here is an example of how to save data in an uploaded CSV file to records in your domain model:

Reviewer 2: Maybe replace "your domain model" with "your application"?

end
```

And use it in a form as usual:

```erb
<%= form_with model: @person do |form| %>
  <%= text_field_with_label form, :first_name %>
<% end %>
```

But you can also create a subclass of `ActionView::Helpers::FormBuilder`, and
add the helpers there. After defining this `LabellingFormBuilder` subclass:

```ruby

> class LabellingFormBuilder < ActionView::Helpers::FormBuilder

Author: The keyword 'super' refers to the superclasss in OOP in general. In this case since we are extending the `ActionView::Helpers::FormBuilder` class, it refers to that class.

> class LabellingFormBuilder < ActionView::Helpers::FormBuilder

Author: Added a comment to clarify

```ruby
module ApplicationHelper
  def labeled_form_with(**options, &block)
    options[:builder] = LabellingFormBuilder
    form_with **options, &block
  end
end
```

and use it instead of `form_with`:

```erb
<%= labeled_form_with model: @person do |form| %>
  <%= form.text_field :first_name %>
<% end %>
```

> All three cases above will generate the same HTML output:

Author: Hm...let me see what I can do.

Okay. Added it to the paragraph itself "All three cases above (the `text_field_with_label` helper, the `LabellingFormBuilder` subclass, and the `labeled_form_with` helper) will generate the same HTML output:"

If `f` is an instance of `ActionView::Helpers::FormBuilder`, then this will render the `form` partial, setting the partial's object to the form builder. If the form builder is of class `LabellingFormBuilder`, then the `labelling_form` partial would be rendered instead.

> The form builder customizations do add indirection (and may seem like an overkill for the simple example above). Choose between different customizations, extending `FormBuilder` class or creating helpers, based on how frequently your forms use the custom elements.

Author: indirection = when you look at code like `labeled_form_with model: @person do |form|` you can't tell what it does, unless you do find "labeled_form_with" is defined and read its code.

> The form builder customizations do add indirection (and may seem like an overkill for the simple example above). Choose between different customizations, extending `FormBuilder` class or creating helpers, based on how frequently your forms use the custom elements.

Reviewer: I also had this question. Since most readers won't have this comment to look back on for clarification, is there a way that we can make this more clear in the text itself?

> The form builder customizations do add indirection (and may seem like an overkill for the simple example above). Choose between different customizations, extending `FormBuilder` class or creating helpers, based on how frequently your forms use the custom elements.

Author: Went with "Form builder customizations, such as `LabellingFormBuilder`, do hide the implementation details". Open to other wording if someone thinks of something better.

Form Input Naming Conventions and `params` Hash
-----------------------------------------------

> All of the form helpers described above help with generating the HTML for form elements so that the user can enter various types of input. How do you access the user input values in the Controller? The `params` hash is the answer. You've already seen the `params` hash in the above example. This section will more explicitly go over naming conventions around how form input is structured in the `params` hash.

Author: I'm leaning towards two shorter sentences vs. one long one.

All of the form inputs map to the `"person"` hash because we called `fields_for`
on the `person_form` form builder. Also, by specifying `index: address.id`, we
rendered the `name` attribute of each city input as
`person[address][#{address.id}][city]` instead of `person[address][city]`. This
way you can tell which `Address` records should be modified when processing the
`params` hash.

You can pass other numbers or strings via the `:index` option.
You can even pass `nil`, which will produce an array parameter.

> To create more intricate nestings, you can specify the leading portion of the

Reviewer 2: It was a bit unclear to me what was different in the example, at first sight.
Maybe we can mention it?
```suggestion
To create more intricate nestings, you can specify the leading portion of the
input name explicitly. For example, if we have a primary address:
```
Note that github ignores line 932 in the suggestion (so that line might be duplicated).

```

You can also pass an `:index` option directly to helpers such as `text_field`,
but it is usually less repetitive to specify this at the form builder level than
on individual input fields.

The final input name is generally a concatenation of the name given to
`fields_for` / `form_with`, the `:index` option value, and the name of the
attribute, `person_address_primary_23_city` in the above example.

Lastly, instead of specifying an ID for `:index` (e.g. `index: address.id`), you
can append `"[]"` to the given name, as a shorthand. For example:

```erb
<%= fields_for 'person[address][primary][]', address do |address_form| %>
  <%= address_form.text_field :city %>
<% end %>
```

will produce exactly the same output as the original example.

Building Complex Forms
----------------------

As your application grows, you may need to create more complex forms, beyond editing a single object. For example, when creating a `Person` you can allow the user to create multiple `Address` records (home, work, etc.) within the same form. When later editing that person the user should be able to add, remove, or update addresses as well.

### Configuring the Model for Nested Attributes

> For editing an associated record for a given model (`Person` in this case),Active Record provides model level support via the [`accepts_nested_attributes_for`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/NestedAttributes/ClassMethods.html#method-i-accepts_nested_attributes_for) method:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For editing an associated record for a given model (`Person` in this case), Active Record provides model level support via the [`accepts_nested_attributes_for`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/NestedAttributes/ClassMethods.html#method-i-accepts_nested_attributes_for) method:
```

> ```

Reviewer: Should this be capitalized like above?
Will create inputs like:

You can also pass an `:index` option directly to helpers such as `text_field`,
but it is usually less repetitive to specify this at the form builder level than
on individual input fields.

The final input name is generally a concatenation of the name given to
`fields_for` / `form_with`, the `:index` option value, and the name of the
attribute (`person_address_primary_23_city` in the above example).

Lastly, instead of specifying an ID for `:index` (e.g. `index: address.id`), you
can append `"[]"` to the given name, as a shorthand. For example:

```erb
<%= fields_for 'person[address][primary][]', address do |address_form| %>
  <%= address_form.text_field :city %>
<% end %>
```

> will produce exactly the same output as the original example.

Reviewer: Now I'm a little confused which we should be using. Capitals or lower case.

Reviewer 2: Would anyone read this as the continuation of a single sentence?
Trying to understand the example will usually result in a context switch.
I think we should rewrite these example sentences to separate sentences if possible:
```suggestion
This will produce exactly the same output as the original example.
```

Author: I like the idea of complete sentences! I'll update this one and rest in this guide.

Author: Ok, I've gone over all of the code blocks and updated the text following it to be complete sentence where it made sense. There were a few places where it read better, more natural, to leave it as is. So I left those alone.

Building Complex Forms
----------------------

> As your application grows, you may need to create more complex forms, beyond editing a single object. For example, when creating a `Person` you can allow the user to create multiple `Address` records (home, work, etc.) within the same form. When later editing that person the user should be able to add, remove, or update addresses as well.

Reviewer: 'When later editing that person' feels strange. Maybe something like:
When editing that 'Person' instance later, the user should be able to add, remove, or update addresses as well.

> As your application grows, you may need to create more complex forms, beyond editing a single object. For example, when creating a `Person` you can allow the user to create multiple `Address` records (home, work, etc.) within the same form. When later editing that person the user should be able to add, remove, or update addresses as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As your application grows, you may need to create more complex forms, beyond editing a single object. For example, when creating a `Person` you can allow the user to create multiple `Address` records (home, work, etc.) within the same form. When editing that record later, the user should be able to add, remove, or update addresses as well.
```

<% end %>
```

> When an association accepts nested attributes `fields_for` renders its block once for every element of the association. In particular, if a person has no addresses it renders nothing.

Reviewer: Some punctuation updates: When an association accepts nested attributes, fields_for renders its block once for every element of the association. In particular, if a person has no addresses, it renders nothing.

> When an association accepts nested attributes `fields_for` renders its block once for every element of the association. In particular, if a person has no addresses it renders nothing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an association accepts nested attributes, fields_for renders its block once for every element of the association. In particular, if a person has no addresses, it renders nothing.
```

}
```

The actual value of the keys in the `:addresses_attributes` hash is not important. But they need to be strings of integers and different for each address.

> If the associated object is already saved, `fields_for` autogenerates a hidden input with the `id` of the saved record. You can disable this by passing `include_id: false` to `fields_for`.

Reviewer 2: Should we also show the parameters for saved objects?

```suggestion
If the associated object is already saved, `fields_for` autogenerates a hidden input with the `id` of the saved record. You can disable this by passing `include_id: false` to `fields_for`.

```ruby
{
  'person' => {
    'name' => 'John Doe',
    'addresses_attributes' => {
      '0' => {
        'id' => 1,
        'kind' => 'Home',
        'street' => '221b Baker Street'
      },
      '1' => {
        'id' => '2',
        'kind' => 'Office',
        'street' => '31 Spooner Street'
      }
    }
  }
}
```
```

}
```

The actual value of the keys in the `:addresses_attributes` hash is not important. But they need to be strings of integers and different for each address.

If the associated object is already saved, `fields_for` autogenerates a hidden input with the `id` of the saved record. You can disable this by passing `include_id: false` to `fields_for`.

```ruby
{
  'person' => {
    'name' => 'John Doe',
    'addresses_attributes' => {
      '0' => {
        'id' => 1,
        'kind' => 'Home',
        'street' => '221b Baker Street'
      },
      '1' => {
        'id' => '2',
        'kind' => 'Office',
        'street' => '31 Spooner Street'
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> ### Permitting Parameters in The Controller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Permitting Parameters in the Controller
```

### Adding Fields on the Fly

Rather than rendering multiple sets of fields ahead of time you may wish to add them only when a user clicks on an "Add new address" button. Rails does not provide any built-in support for this though.

Forms to External Resources
---------------------------

> Rails form helpers can be used to build a form for posting data to an external resource. If the external API expects an `authenticity_token` for the resource, this can be passed as `authenticity_token: 'your_external_token'` parameter to `form_with`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Rails form helpers can be used to build a form for posting data to an external resource. If the external API expects an `authenticity_token` for the resource, this can be passed as an `authenticity_token: 'your_external_token'` parameter to `form_with`:
```

### Adding Fields on the Fly

> Rather than rendering multiple sets of fields ahead of time you may wish to add them only when a user clicks on an "Add new address" button. Rails does not provide any built-in support for this though.

Author: Haha, yeah agree, it's a bit "good luck with that".  This section can be removed IMO, not adding any value. (The advice would involve talking about turbo and stimulus as far as how I'd do this...there might be other ways or external gems...but I think all of that is out of scope for this guide).

> Rather than rendering multiple sets of fields ahead of time you may wish to add them only when a user clicks on an "Add new address" button. Rails does not provide any built-in support for this though.

Author: >Should this have been removed? "When generating new sets of fields you must ensure the key of the associated array is unique - the current JavaScript date (milliseconds since the [epoch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time)) is a common choice."

The 2nd paragraph, I'm not seeing which line that is referring to?
